{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang2057{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\fs28\lang9 Core Backend Fundamentals\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f1 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf1\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\f1\fs24 What are HTTP status codes? (200, 201, 400, 401, 403, 404, 500).\par
{\pntext\f1 2.\tab}Explain HTTP methods (GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, DELETE) and idempotency.\par
{\pntext\f1 3.\tab}Difference between PUT vs PATCH with examples.\par
{\pntext\f1 4.\tab}What does statelessness mean in REST?\par
{\pntext\f1 5.\tab}What is the difference between Monolithic vs Microservices architecture?\par
{\pntext\f1 6.\tab}What is pagination? How would you implement it?\par
{\pntext\f1 7.\tab}What is rate limiting? How would you implement it?  \par
{\pntext\f1 8.\tab}Explain REST API vs GraphQL vs gRPC vs SOAP.\par
{\pntext\f1 9.\tab}What is API versioning and why is it important?\par
{\pntext\f1 10.\tab}What are idempotency keys (e.g., in payment APIs)?\par
{\pntext\f1 11.\tab}Explain long polling, SSE, and WebSockets.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs28\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc Authentication & Security\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f1 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf1\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\f1\fs24 Difference between Session-based auth vs JWT-based auth.\par
{\pntext\f1 2.\tab}What is JSON Web Token (JWT)? Explain the structure of a JWT token.\par
{\pntext\f1 3.\tab}What is CORS? How do you handle CORS errors?\par
{\pntext\f1 4.\tab}Difference between HTTP vs HTTPS.\par
{\pntext\f1 5.\tab}Explain the concept of middleware in Express. \par
{\pntext\f1 6.\tab}Explain OpenID Connect.\par
{\pntext\f1 7.\tab}How to implement Role-Based Access Control (RBAC).\par
{\pntext\f1 8.\tab}How to implement Attribute-Based Access Control (ABAC).\par
{\pntext\f1 9.\tab}Explain TLS/SSL Handshake.\par
{\pntext\f1 10.\tab}What is SQL Injection? How to prevent it?\par
{\pntext\f1 11.\tab}What is XSS? How to prevent it?\par
{\pntext\f1 12.\tab}What is CSRF? How to prevent it?\par
{\pntext\f1 13.\tab}How do you securely store passwords? (bcrypt, argon2).\par
{\pntext\f1 14.\tab}What is rate limiting for brute force prevention?\par
{\pntext\f1 15.\tab}Explain the difference between app-level and router-level parameter middleware.\par
{\pntext\f1 16.\tab}What is the difference between encryption and hashing?\par
{\pntext\f1 17.\tab}What is hashing, and why is it important to hash your passwords?\par
{\pntext\f1 18.\tab}What is OAuth2 and when to use it?\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs28\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc Databases\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f1 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf1\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\f1\fs24 Difference between SQL vs NoSQL databases.\par
{\pntext\f1 2.\tab}When to use MongoDB vs PostgreSQL vs MySQL.\par
{\pntext\f1 3.\tab}What are indexes? Pros & cons.\par
{\pntext\f1 4.\tab}Difference between clustered vs non-clustered index.\par
{\pntext\f1 5.\tab}What is database normalization? 1NF, 2NF, 3NF.\par
{\pntext\f1 6.\tab}What is denormalization?\par
{\pntext\f1 7.\tab}What are transactions? Explain ACID properties.\par
{\pntext\f1 8.\tab}Explain ACID properties with reference to MongoDB.\par
{\pntext\f1 9.\tab}What is the difference between BASE vs ACID?\par
{\pntext\f1 10.\tab}How do you design a schema for a Task Manager (users, tasks, comments)?\par
{\pntext\f1 11.\tab}What is aggregation in MongoDB?\par
{\pntext\f1 12.\tab}How do you optimize the performance of MongoDB queries?\par
{\pntext\f1 13.\tab}What is sharding in databases?\par
{\pntext\f1 14.\tab}What is replication in databases?\par
{\pntext\f1 15.\tab}What is replication in MongoDB?\par
{\pntext\f1 16.\tab}How do you implement Redis caching with databases?\par
{\pntext\f1 17.\tab}What is the difference between authentication and authorization?\par
{\pntext\f1 18.\tab}What is Express, and what is it used for?\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs28\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc Node.js Core\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f1 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf1\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\f1\fs24 What is Node.js? Why is it single-threaded?\par
{\pntext\f1 2.\tab}How is Node.js different from Vanilla JavaScript?\par
{\pntext\f1 3.\tab}Explain event-driven, non-blocking I/O.\par
{\pntext\f1 4.\tab}What are buffers in Node.js?\par
{\pntext\f1 5.\tab}What are streams in Node.js? (Readable, Writable, Duplex, Transform).\par
{\pntext\f1 6.\tab}What is EventEmitter in Node.js? How to use it?\par
{\pntext\f1 7.\tab}Explain the Event Loop phases (timers, pending callbacks, idle, poll, check, close).\par
{\pntext\f1 8.\tab}Difference between process.nextTick(), setImmediate(), and setTimeout().\par
{\pntext\f1 9.\tab}Difference between require (CommonJS) vs import (ESM).\par
{\pntext\f1 10.\tab}What are worker threads? When to use vs clustering?\par
{\pntext\f1 11.\tab}Difference between spawn, fork, exec in child processes.\par
{\pntext\f1 12.\tab}How do you handle uncaughtException and unhandledRejection?\par
{\pntext\f1 13.\tab}How can you secure a Node.js application? Discuss best practices.\par
{\pntext\f1 14.\tab}What is long vs short polling with reference to WebSockets?\par
{\pntext\f1 15.\tab}Explain the concept of caching.\par
{\pntext\f1 16.\tab}What are the different types of modules available in Node.js?\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs28\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc Express.js & APIs\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f1 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf1\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\f1\fs24 What are middleware functions in Express?\par
{\pntext\f1 2.\tab}Explain the concept of middleware in Express.\par
{\pntext\f1 3.\tab}How do you create a simple REST API in Express?\par
{\pntext\f1 4.\tab}Difference between app.use(), app.all(), and app.get().\par
{\pntext\f1 5.\tab}How to implement global error handling in Express?\par
{\pntext\f1 6.\tab}How to log requests in Express? (Morgan, Winston).\par
{\pntext\f1 7.\tab}How to validate request data? (Joi, Zod, express-validator).\par
{\pntext\f1 8.\tab}How to handle file uploads in Node.js? (Multer).\par
{\pntext\f1 9.\tab}How to implement rate limiting middleware?\par
{\pntext\f1 10.\tab}How to structure Express apps using MVC architecture.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs28\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc Asynchronous Programming\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f1 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf1\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\f1 What are callbacks, promises, and async/await?\par
{\pntext\f1 2.\tab}\fs24 How to handle errors in async/await?\par
{\pntext\f1 3.\tab}What is the callback hell problem? How to avoid it?\par
{\pntext\f1 4.\tab}Difference between parallel vs sequential execution.\par
{\pntext\f1 5.\tab}How do you handle concurrent requests efficiently?\par
{\pntext\f1 6.\tab}Difference between Promise.all, Promise.race, Promise.allSettled, andPromise.any.\line\line\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\f0\fs28 Performance & Scalability\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f1 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf1\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\f1\fs24 Difference between horizontal vs vertical scaling.\par
{\pntext\f1 2.\tab}What is clustering in Node.js?\par
{\pntext\f1 3.\tab}What is a load balancer? How does it work?\par
{\pntext\f1 4.\tab}How do you scale Node.js to handle 10,000+ concurrent requests?\par
{\pntext\f1 5.\tab}What are message queues? (RabbitMQ, Kafka, Bull).\par
{\pntext\f1 6.\tab}What is caching? When to use Redis or CDN caching?\par
{\pntext\f1 7.\tab}What is CQRS (Command Query Responsibility Segregation)?\par
{\pntext\f1 8.\tab}What is event-driven architecture?\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs28\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc Testing & Deployment\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f1 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf1\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\f1\fs24 How to manage environment variables in Node.js? (dotenv).\par
{\pntext\f1 2.\tab}What is the difference between nodemon vs PM2?\par
{\pntext\f1 3.\tab}How to write unit tests in Node.js (Mocha, Jest)?\par
{\pntext\f1 4.\tab}How to test Express APIs using Supertest?\par
{\pntext\f1 5.\tab}How to deploy a Node.js app on Heroku, Render, or AWS?\par
{\pntext\f1 6.\tab}What is Docker? How to containerize a Node.js app?\par
{\pntext\f1 7.\tab}What is Kubernetes? Why use it with Node.js?\par
{\pntext\f1 8.\tab}How to use NGINX as a reverse proxy with Node.js?\par
{\pntext\f1 9.\tab}How to implement CI/CD pipelines for Node.js apps?\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs28\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc Monitoring & Debugging\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f1 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf1\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\f1\fs24 What is structured logging? Why use Winston/Morgan?\par
{\pntext\f1 2.\tab}How do you monitor Node.js apps? (PM2, New Relic, Datadog, Grafana).\par
{\pntext\f1 3.\tab}What happens if the event loop is blocked? How to fix it?\par
{\pntext\f1 4.\tab}How to debug memory leaks in Node.js?\par
{\pntext\f1 5.\tab}Difference between heap memory vs stack memory in Node.js.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs28\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc System Design (Scenario-based)\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f1 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf1\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\f1\fs24 Design a URL shortener (bit.ly).\par
{\pntext\f1 2.\tab}Design a task management system (users, tasks, comments, notifications).\par
{\pntext\f1 3.\tab}Design an e-commerce backend (users, products, orders, payments).\par
{\pntext\f1 4.\tab}Design a travel booking system.\par
{\pntext\f1 5.\tab}Design a real-time chat app (Socket.io + Redis).\par
{\pntext\f1 6.\tab}Design a job scheduler (like cron jobs).\par
{\pntext\f1 7.\tab}Design a file storage system (local vs AWS S3).\par
{\pntext\f1 8.\tab}Design an email notification service (queues + workers).\par
{\pntext\f1 9.\tab}Design a microservices architecture with Node.js.\par
{\pntext\f1 10.\tab}Explain the concept of WebSockets.\par
}
 